git init-
git add .-

git commit -m "message name"-
git origin-
git push origin main(with branch name)-
git clone-
git branch-
git checkout-
git log- shows all commit message
git log --oneline -shows commit message in one line 
git branch -d branch_name      -Delete a merged branch
git branch -D branch_name     - Force delete an unmerged branch
git remote -v
git revert-

git status-This command will show you a list of all untracked files, 
git ls-files --others --exclude-standard-If you want to see untracked files that are not added to your local repository yet, use:
git config --get remote.origin.url   -get url of repository




TO CHANGE COMMITed message to repo

git commit --amend -C <COMMIT ID> --edit

this will open editor

use ctrl + i to edit
after editing
press esc and shift with zz to come out of editor

and then git push --force-with-lease







TO REVERT CHANGES
this will remove files commited in local and remote repo ,,but old commit will be there with new commit

git revert <commit id>

opens editior

use ctrl + i to edit messages

and shift + zz to come out

and finally push






GIT BLAME
git blame is a Git command that shows the last modification made to each line of a file, along with the commit information and author who made the change. It's useful for tracking changes and understanding the history of a file.

git blame <file_name>

Options:
-L <start>,<end>: Show only the changes made to the specified line range.
-c: Show the commit information in a more compact format.
-w: Ignore whitespace changes.
-p: Show the patch introduced in the commit.


git blame -L 10,20 -c my_file.txt

to add lines
git blame -L 1,+2 "src\components\Abort.jsx"



GIT SHOW


git show is a Git command that displays the contents of a specific commit, including the changes made in that commit.
Syntax
Bash
git show [options] <commit>
s: Suppress the diff output.
--name-only: Show only the names of the files changed.
--name-status: Show the names and status of the files changed.
--stat: Show the number of lines added and deleted.
--patch: Show the patch introduced by the commit.
-p: Same as --patch.



Displaying a commit:
Bash
git show HEAD
This will display the contents of the most recent commit, including the changes made.




Displaying a specific commit:
Bash
git show <commit_hash>




Showing the names of changed files:
Bash
git show --name-only HEAD
This will display only the names of the files changed in the most recent commit.




Showing the status of changed files:
Bash
git show --name-status HEAD
This will display the names and status (added, deleted, modified) of the files changed in the most recent commit.




Showing the diff:
Bash
git show -p HEAD



Common Use Cases
Reviewing commits: Use git show to review the changes made in a specific commit.
Understanding commit history: Use git show to understand the changes made in a specific commit and how they fit into the overall commit history.
Debugging: Use git show to identify the changes made in a specific commit that may have introduced a bug.
Note: git show can be used with other Git commands, such as git log and git diff, to display additional information about the commit.
